
CONTENTS OF THIS FILE
---------------------

 * API outline
 * Summary of the deployment cycle
 * Hooks
 * The plan object
 * The endpoint object
 * The aggregator plugin
 * The processor plugin
 * The service plugin
 * The authenticator plugin

API OUTLINE
-----------

The Deploy module is used to deploy Drupal content to other Drupal sites or
arbritary systems. The definition used here for "content" is Drupal entities.
Thus, entities are the only Drupal object that can be deployed. Other objects
(usually configuration objects), like Views and Panels are preferably deployed
in code with the Features module and a version controll system.

The Deploy module depends on the Entity API module, which gives us the
advantage of wrapping more meta data around each entity and makes us able to
handle all entities in one generic way.

A deployment cycle is represented by six types of objects. The two main objects
are:

 * Plans
 * Endpoints

Those two objects are basically configuration and factory objects around the
following plugins, which are all CTools plugins:

 * Aggregators
 * Processors
 * Authenticators
 * Services

The API and the relation between all the objects is built around the dependency
injection pattern as much as possible. Read more about that pattern here:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependency_injection

SUMMARY OF THE DEPLOYMENT CYCLE
-------------------------------

This section is intended to give a brief summary of how the deployment cycle
works. For more in-depth information about each specific object type, please
refer to the later topics in this document.

 0. Deployment of a plan is due. The plan is loaded with 'deploy_plan_load()',
    (1) either from the database or from the default hook.

 1. The plan object is configured through 'deploy_plan_create()' or loaded from
    a default hook. The fully configured plan object is returned to the load
    function which returns it back to the trigger.

 2. The trigger calls the 'deploy' method on the plan object which starts the
    whole deployment cycle.

 3. The plan iterates over its endpoint references and hands them over to the
    processor.

 4. The processor processes each endpoint by requesting all entities from the
    aggregator (5) and hands them over to the endpoint when appropriate (6).
    Between 5 and 6 the processor decides to either process all endpoints and
    entities directly, batch them into smaller pieces or queue the process for
    later.

 5. The aggregator gets called by the processor and goes aggregating all
    entities for deployment. It passes all the entity types and entity ids into
    the 'DeployIterator' that will find out all dependencies. Since
    'DeployIterator' is recursive, the aggregator passes it into
    'DeployIteratorIterator' which basically flattens it.

 6. The endpoint is loaded by the processor, with a fully configured
    authenticator plugin. It is also handed a batch of entities for deployment.
    The endpoint is wrapping all entities with some additional meta data.

 7. The endpoint calls 'deploy' one the authenticator (8) with the batch of
    entities itself was handed.

 8. The authenticator gets called and can do its magic. Since the authenticator
    wrapps the service object, it has access to modify it or add parameters as
    needed. When it's done it calls 'deploy' on the service (9) with the batch
    of entities itself was handed.

 9. The service plugin is handed the batch of entities and deploys them over
    its service.

HOOKS
-----

hook_deploy_entity_dependencies($entity, $entity_type)

hook_deploy_entity_dependencies_alter(&$dependencies, $entity, $entity_type)

hook_deploy_item_deployed($sender, $args)

THE PLAN OBJECT
---------------

One plan consists of one aggregator plugin and one processor plugin and
references to one or many endpoints. This gives us a good representation of
what a plan actually is -- a workflow for aggregating and processing entities
for deployment to one or many endpoints.

When a deployment is triggered for a plan object, that object is responsible
for iterating over its endpoints and process them with its processor. The
plan's responsibility ends there.

Plans are CTools exportable objects and are instances of the 'DeployPlan'
class. 'DeployPlan' must be fully configured before calling 'deploy()' on it.
See how that is done in its factory function 'deploy_plan_create()'.

Deployment of plans can be triggered in many different ways. Either manually by
an end user, by a custom Rules event or through a Drush command. More ways of
triggering deployment of a plan can be provided by contrib modules.

THE ENDPOINT OBJECT
-------------------

One endpoint consists of one authenticator plugin and one service plugin. This
gives us a good representation of what an endpoint actually is -- another site
or system accessible through one specific type of service with one specific
type of authentication method.

An endpoint objects is handed an iterator of entities and is responsible for
calling its authenticator and hand the entities over to its service. The
endpoint's responsibility ends there.

Endpoints are CTools exportable objects and are instances of the
'DeployEndpoint' class. 'DeployEndpoint' must be fully configured before
'deploy()' is called on it. See how that is done in its factory function
'deploy_endpoint_create()'.

Depending on the processor used in the plan, the endpoint might be handed one
or many entities to deploy.

THE AGGREGATOR PLUGIN
---------------------

The aggregator plugin is responsible for aggregating entities that shall be
deployed, for a processor to process. The method for how an aggregator
aggregates its entities can widely vary between plugins. The one aggregator
plugin that comes with the Deploy module is aggregating entities with a user
defined view.

Aggregator plugins needs to implement the 'DeployAggregator' interface. That
interface extends the Standard PHP Library (SPL) inteface 'IteratorAggregate'
which makes the object traversable. This brings us cleaner, more consistent and
more readable code.

One requirement to implement the 'IteratorAggregate' inteface is to define a
'getIterator' method which must return an iterator. This is the method where
the aggregator will aggregate all its entities and construct a 'DeployIterator'
with its entity types and entity ids. The 'DeployIterator' will then iterate
over all aggregated entities and find all their recursive dependencies. This
makes the aggregator not needing to figure out dependencies.

Since the nature of 'DeployIterator' is recursive with all dependencies, and we
want processors to process all entities in a flat way, the 'getIterator' method
needs to return an instance of 'DeployIteratorIterator', which basically will
flatten the result.

Aggregator plugins are defined by implementing 'hook_deploy_aggregators()'.
See 'deploy_deploy_aggregators()' for more information on how the
implementation should look like.

THE PROCESSOR PLUGIN
--------------------

The processor plugin is responsible for processing all aggregated entities and
hand them over to an endpoint for deployment. The reason why processors exists
is because large plans might take a long time to walk through. Processors gives
the possibility to queue or batch this operation into smaller pieces.

Processor plugins needs to implement the 'DeployProcessor' interface and takes
a fully configured aggregator object upon construction. When processing are due
its handed an endpoint name, which its responsible to load and hand the
traversable aggregator to, or pieces of it.

Processor plugins are defined by implementing 'hook_deploy_processors()'. See
'deploy_deploy_processors()' for more information on how the implementation
should look like.

THE SERVICE PLUGIN
------------------

The service plugin is responsible for doing the actual deployment of one or
many entities to a remote site or arbritary system, through a specific type of
service.

When deployment is due, the service object is handed a traversable iterator of
entities to deploy. Depending on the processor it might be one or many entities
in that iterator.

Service plugins are defined by implementing 'hook_deploy_services()'. See
'deploy_deploy_services()' for more information on how the implementation
should look like.

THE AUTHENTICATOR PLUGIN
------------------------

The authenticator plugin is responsible for authenticating on the endpoint.
Configured in an endpoit, authenticators wraps the service object which gives
us a good representation of how it actually works -- the 'deploy' method needs
to go through the authenticator.

Authenticators needs to implement the 'DeployAuthenticator' interface and takes
a fully configured service object upon construction. When deployment is due, the
'deploy' method is called on the authenticator where it is responsible for doing
its magic. After it is successfully done, it needs to call 'deploy' on its
service object.

Authenticator plugins are defined by implementing
'hook_deploy_authenticators()'. See 'deploy_deploy_authenticators()' for more
information on how the implementation should look like.
